# INCIDENT HANDLING

**Incident Handling Definition & Scope**
*Event*: this is some that happens on a system or network. They can be simple from a user logging in or it can the firewall allowing a connection for a website that you are visiting
*Incident*: This is an event that had a negative consequence attached to it. This can be from a server crashing or it can include natural disasters. These will vary from company to company so they could label natural disasters as something else and label an incident as a clear intent to do harm
Incident handling with have a set standard operating procedure (SOP) that lays out how and who needs to be involved in the incident handling process depending on the type of incident. There is going to be a different procedure for someone clicking on a phishing email then if an employee accidently takes sensitive information home when they shouldn’t have. There will also be a response if there is a hardware issue that causes your system to lose power.
An incident may not always be clear cut and there needs to be some investigation to determine if it is an event or incident. Any suspicious activity should be labeled as an incident until it is proven to be an event. Incident until proven event.

**Incident Handling’s Value & Generic Notes**
Incidents often involve the compromise of data, whether that is personal and/or business data. It is important to respond to these incidents in a quick and timely manner to limit the amount of damage that is done, this can involve losing the edge to competitors, fines based on the type of information that was compromised, lose of reputation.
The impact of incidents can vary in size, it could be to the number of systems that were compromised or the amount of data that was breach or encrypted if it is a ransomware attack.
There are teams that this is there whole job. [NIST](csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/computer_incident_response_team) commonly calls these teams the Computer Incident Response Team (CIRT) but can go by a few different names CSIRT (Computer Security Incident Response Team), CIRC (Computer Incdient Response Center). Having these teams inplace allow to respond rapidly and are trained to handle the incident in the proper manner. Which allows them to minimize any loss of data or disruption to services that are vital for the business.
Not every incident is going to have the same impact on the business so you need to be able to prioritize what are mission crital for the business to accoplish it's goal. That is going to vary from business to business. For example if an e-commerce site and a local small business website get hit with a DDoS attack the e-commerce site is going to place a greater emphasis on getting their site back online versus the small business that relies more on customers coming into their business.
The CIRT is lead by an incident manager. This person can be the SOC Manager, CISO, or if your CIRT is supplemented by a vendor, that vendor will have a incident manager for the team. This individual is where all the information about the incident if feed to. This allows them to communitate any information back to the team or brief the C-suite on how the incident is progressing and what steps need to be put into place to avoid it happening again
NIST has the [SP 800-61](https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-61r2) for incident handling and the international standard is [ISO/IEC 27035-2](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/en/#iso:std:iso-iec:27035:-2:ed-2:v1:en). ISO isn't free like the NIST publication is so the link is the beginning portion of the standard.